let's ask a true orbiter someone who is
not emotionally attached to a satellite
he's a TV host and founder of micro a
works Foundation which is sobering its
10-year anniversary Mike welcome Ryan
I'm sorry I forgot the Hat what can I
tell you I'm on West Coast time I forgot
my pants I'm out here without enough
okay let's keep that our secret yeah hey
Mike what about this Florida State
University is starting a new program
because college kids these days are so
stressed out you've got to take part in
an anti stress program unless you're
really stressed out and they're gonna
say you know what you don't have to take
it because you're too stressed you can
opt out of a stress program if it causes
anxiety yes it's getting weird guys you
know I mean it's it's it's I don't
really know what else to say that I
haven't said about the safe space
mentality and the unintended
consequences of ignoring sensible
chronology with regard to the priorities
we ought to be focused on educating the
youth all I can all I can say at this
point is that they're an easy target you
know and I feel like whether you call
them Millennials or snowflakes or
whatever it is you know we built the
safe space
you know we're rolling out the anti
stress programs we're the ones who are
indulging talk of trauma you know for
everyday situations I think I think
we're the clouds from which the
snowflakes fell and at some point we
have to look at each other and say what
if we what have we done here the
University recently had built up the
safe space movement and we joke about it
and laugh about it but this is serious
our young people aren't ready to go out
into the real world they don't have
skills and they're in the real where
there are no stress classes that you
cannot take if you're stressed out work
is stressful you don't get to not show
up for work right and I have this
conversation a lot I interview a lot of
people a lot of college graduates my
foundation focuses very specifically on
learning a skill that's in demand
and there is a real disconnect when you
sit down with people today who have
matriculated from a four-year
institution there's an expectation you
know and and again I don't really want
to blame this group or that group but
the expectation is real and the
expectation is this I want a job in my
chosen field I want that job to pay not
just fairly but well and most
interestingly I would like that job to
be in my zip code like right now I don't
I'm not really into this whole moving to
where the work is I was told this that
and the other so so much of what you
guys talk about in the morning so much
of the headlines to me if you walk it
back you can identify the disconnect
that's happening in our educational
system and the expectations that are
leading to just a colossal confusion
with regard to what is really happening
out there and somewhere at the root of
it is the fiction of a safe space and
this in this happy little hope that
somehow or another we can mitigate our
stress away by talking it through right
are we really the same country that just
forged our way through the Midwest and
West without even knowing if there were
dinosaurs on the other side who did not
even know if they would have weird lunch
this is it that's why they went west for
the Tyrannosaurus Rex is why I'm
teaching you outdoor activities but we
want to get to you saying I mean where
do we get this from where's that
attitude the pioneering spirit well it
to me it's it's either it's it's
uncertainty we used to look at
uncertainty as this thing fun that was
similar to variety right it's like yeah
I don't know what's gonna happen next
and so you know whether you're reading a
book or watching a movie or taking a
trip not knowing what's around the
corner used to be part of the fun of it
now it's stress inducing and and and and
heavy with potential trauma right so
that that's I'm not a social
anthropologist or a shrink but that
strikes me is something that's that's
really fundamental we've we've we've
arbitrage
fun out of uncertainty you know Mike as
people look toward the holiday weekend
something they could do is they could
buy a pair of boots and not just any
boots but a pair of Wolverine boots
because they are offering a limited
edition of a thousand-mile or boots like
the one right there did you warn I kept
every one of your shows and all the
proceeds go to your foundation it's it I
got it right here that's it I've been
wearing these things I've been wearing
these boots for ten years thank you for
bringing it up it's the all time
shameless plug ever but every year on
Labor Day I try and do something with a
company that's like-minded and Wolverine
though I wear their shoes so they said
we'll do one just for Mike Rowe works
right all the proceeds go to your
foundation so I said awesome they set
aside 150 pairs thanks for bringing it
up hey Mike have you combined with the
White House at all because it seems like
Ivanka has the same lines you have about
learning a trade and learning a skill
have you been in contact yeah we have
and I'll tell you the bottom line for me
after 10 years of doing this my
foundations modest we've we've raised
about five million dollars for work
ethic scholarships and it's true there
we we are aligned in a lot of ways but
look you guys know it as well as anybody
if I put the Red Hat on half the country
isn't going to hear me
of course and I we're we're completely
agnostic and nonpartisan at micro works
anybody who's willing to learn a skill
that's in demand who can meet the rigor
of our work ethic scholarship program is
somebody we want to help so I just
simply can't indulge the politics of the
moment I saw very young people I like
the message a lot what's really
important exactly since most of them are
leaving college with no skills degrees
and degrees that are worthless in debt
that they cannot pay off so thank you
for you lady
sick 6.6 million jobs are available now
75% of them don't require four-year
degree but you said words like the ethic
is everything worth ethic inerrant and
you need a skill and that's what micro
works foundation is all about Mike it's
always a pleasure thank you very much
good luck with those boots this weekend
yeah and I'll take it
please wear the hat next time those
boots were made for plugging you got and
that's just what they did one of these
days these boots are going to plug all
over you can see Sinatra I get it